CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Pathfinder.vim

*This file contains information about the inner workings of pathfinder.vim.
You should also read these [general contributing guidelines][default-contributing].*

[default-contributing]: https://github.com/danth/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

## Development environment

The plugin files will be cloned somewhere under `~/.vim` by your plugin manager.
For example Plug places them in `~/.vim/plugged/pathfinder.vim/`.

Some plugin managers also allow you to clone the repository into a directory of
your choice and use the path to that directory to install the plugin.

## Pathfinding

The pathfinding algorithm used is [Dijkstra's algorithm][dijkstra], which is
just a greedy algorithm. Vertices are generated on-the-fly rather than building
the entire graph beforehand.

Each vertex in the graph is a tuple of `(view, most recent motion)`.  `view` is
the result of `winsaveview()` in Vim: this includes both the cursor and scroll
positions. We need to store the most recent motion because it is used to
calculate certain weights - `2fk` should be cheaper than `fkfy`.

[dijkstra]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm

## Python to Vim interface

Vim (when compiled with `+python3`) comes with an embedded Python module called
`vim`, which is used to send commands and output from Python.

In Vimscript, the following syntax is used to call Python code:

```vim
python3 <line of code>
```

```vim
python3 << endpython
<multiple lines of code>
endpython
```

## Client and Server

The way we discover connections between nodes (characters) in the pathfinding
graph is:

1. Move the cursor to the node position
2. Run the motion with `silent! normal! <motion>`
3. Check where the cursor moved to and record it as a connection

This causes the cursor to move around while things are being tested. We want to
allow users to continue working while paths are found, hence we start a "server"
which is basically another Vim process using [this barebones vimrc](serverrc.vim).

The user's Vim (the client) sends the contents of the current buffer, the start
and target positions, the window dimensions and some other information to the
server when it wants to request a path. This communication happens through
`multiprocessing.connection` with a temporary file.

The server will then do pathfinding in the background and send the result back
when it is done, which the client receives and displays.

Commit message:

docs: update contributing guidelines
I've deleted my account-wide contributing guidelines, so adding the necessary information here instead.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Pathfinder.vim

## Commit messages

**Please follow the
[Angular commit style](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md#commits)
in your commit messages so that the automatic version numbering can work.**

## Development environment

The plugin files will be cloned somewhere under `~/.vim` by your plugin manager.
For example Plug places them in `~/.vim/plugged/pathfinder.vim/`.

Some plugin managers also allow you to clone the repository into a directory of
your choice and use the path to that directory to install the plugin.

## Pathfinding

The pathfinding algorithm used is [Dijkstra's algorithm][dijkstra], which is
just a greedy algorithm. Vertices are generated on-the-fly rather than building
the entire graph beforehand.

Each vertex in the graph is a tuple of `(view, most recent motion)`.  `view` is
the result of `winsaveview()` in Vim: this includes both the cursor and scroll
positions. We need to store the most recent motion because it is used to
calculate certain weights - `2fk` should be cheaper than `fkfy`.

[dijkstra]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm

## Python to Vim interface

Vim (when compiled with `+python3`) comes with an embedded Python module called
`vim`, which is used to send commands and output from Python.

In Vimscript, the following syntax is used to call Python code:

```vim
python3 <line of code>
```

```vim
python3 << endpython
<multiple lines of code>
endpython
```

## Client and Server

The way we discover connections between nodes (characters) in the pathfinding
graph is:

1. Move the cursor to the node position
2. Run the motion with `silent! normal! <motion>`
3. Check where the cursor moved to and record it as a connection

This causes the cursor to move around while things are being tested. We want to
allow users to continue working while paths are found, hence we start a "server"
which is basically another Vim process using [this barebones vimrc](serverrc.vim).

The user's Vim (the client) sends the contents of the current buffer, the start
and target positions, the window dimensions and some other information to the
server when it wants to request a path. This communication happens through
`multiprocessing.connection` with a temporary file.

The server will then do pathfinding in the background and send the result back
when it is done, which the client receives and displays.
